docs/Installation.md, before:

Welcome to the official installation guide for PicoForge. This document will help you set up the application on your operating system.

## Windows

1.  #### Download the Installer

    Go to the [Latest Releases](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/releases/latest) page and download the `picoforge_[version]_[arch]-setup.exe` file.

2.  #### Run the Installer

    Locate the downloaded file and run it to install the application.

3.  #### Verify Smart Card Service

    For the application to communicate with your device, the Windows Smart Card service must be running. You can ensure this by running the following command in PowerShell:

    ```powershell
    Get-Service SCardSvr | Start-Service
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please run the application as **Administrator**. This is often required for the application to correctly detect and interact with the hardware device.

## macOS

> [!WARNING]
> The macOS version of this application is tested rarely, while it does work fine, it might have some bugs that I have not experienced, feel free to report it on issues.
> 
> If you are a developer or user who can assist with testing and debugging on macOS, contributions are highly appreciated. Please check the Issues tab or join our Discord server.

#### Setup Instructions:

- Download the application from the [Latest Releases](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/releases/latest).
- No additional driver setup is usually required as the PC/SC framework is built into macOS.

## Linux

We offer multiple ways to run the application on Linux. Please choose the method that best suits your needs.

### Global Prerequisite: Smart Card Daemon

Regardless of the installation method you choose below, your **host operating system** must have the Smart Card Daemon (`pcscd`) installed and running. This service allows the application to talk to the USB device.

#### Enable pcscd on your host:

```bash
# Command may vary by distro, commonly:
sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd
```

### Option 1: [COPR Repository](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/) (Recommended for Fedora, openSUSE, and RHEL-based distros)

[COPR](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/) is the recommended way of installing the application on Fedora, openSUSE, and RHEL-based distributions. This method ensures you get the latest release of the app on the same day it's published.

#### Fedora

##### Fedora Rawhide, 43, 42

```bash
sudo dnf copr enable lockedmutex/picoforge
sudo dnf install picoforge
```

#### RHEL-based Distributions

##### RHEL, CentOS, AlmaLinux, Rocky Linux (EPEL 10)

```bash
sudo dnf install dnf-plugins-core
sudo dnf copr enable lockedmutex/picoforge
sudo dnf install picoforge
```

#### openSUSE

##### Tumbleweed

```bash
sudo zypper addrepo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/repo/opensuse-tumbleweed/lockedmutex-picoforge-opensuse-tumbleweed.repo
sudo zypper refresh
sudo zypper install picoforge
```

##### Leap 15.6

```bash
sudo zypper addrepo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/repo/opensuse-leap-15.6/lockedmutex-picoforge-opensuse-leap-15.6.repo
sudo zypper refresh
sudo zypper install picoforge
```

#### Post-Installation

After installation, you can launch picoforge from your application menu or run:

```bash
picoforge
```

#### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues during installation:

- **Fedora/RHEL**: Ensure EPEL repository is enabled for RHEL-based systems
- **openSUSE**: Verify the repository URL matches your distribution version
- For general issues, check the [project repository](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge) or [report a bug](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/issues)

### Option 2: AppImage (Simplest)

The AppImage format contains most dependencies and runs on almost any Linux distribution.

1.  Download the `.AppImage` file from the [Latest Releases](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/releases/latest).
2.  Mark the file as executable:
    ```bash
    chmod +x picoforge_*.AppImage
    ```
3.  Launch the file.

> [!NOTE]
> If the AppImage does not start, check if you are missing FUSE (Filesystem in Userspace), which is required for AppImages on some newer distributions like Ubuntu 22.04+.

### Option 3: Distrobox

If you encounter dependency issues on your specific distribution, we highly recommend using **Distrobox**. This method runs the application inside a stable Fedora environment while integrating it seamlessly with your desktop.

#### Requirements:

- [Distrobox](https://distrobox.it/) installed on your system.
- A container engine like `podman` or `docker`.

#### Step-by-Step Guide:

1.  **Create the Container:**
    We will use a standard Fedora Toolbox image which is known to be compatible.
    ```bash
    distrobox create -i quay.io/fedora/fedora-toolbox:43 -n picoforge
    ```

2.  **Enter the Container:**
    ```bash
    distrobox enter picoforge
    ```

3.  **Install the Application:**
    ```bash
    sudo dnf copr enable lockedmutex/picoforge
    sudo dnf install picoforge
    ```

4.  **Export to Host System:**
    This step creates a shortcut in your system's application menu so you can launch it like any other app.
    ```bash
    distrobox-export --app picoforge
    ```

5.  **Launch:**
    You can now find and launch "picoforge" from your application launcher.

### Option 4: Native Package

If you prefer to install the package directly on your system, please ensure you have installed all necessary dependencies for your specific distribution.

<details>
<summary><strong>OpenSuse Tumbleweed Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo zypper install libwebkit2gtk-4_1-0 libsoup-3_0-0 libgtk-3-0 \
libpcsclite1 libhidapi-hidraw0 libsecret-1-0 \
gstreamer-plugins-base libavif16 libwebp7 libenchant-2-2 pcsc-tools

sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Fedora Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo dnf install webkit2gtk4.1 libsoup3 gtk3 \
pcsc-lite pcsc-tools hidapi libsecret \
gstreamer1-plugins-base libavif libwebp enchant2

sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Debian / Ubuntu Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install libwebkit2gtk-4.1-0 libgtk-3-0 libsoup-3.0-0 \
libpcsclite1 pcscd pcsc-tools libhidapi-hidraw0 libsecret-1-0 \
gstreamer1.0-plugins-base libavif16 libwebp7 libenchant-2-2
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Arch Linux Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo pacman -S webkit2gtk-4.1 gtk3 libsoup3 \
pcsclite pcsc-tools hidapi libsecret \
gst-plugins-base libavif libwebp enchant
```
</details>

#### Installation:

1.  Download the `.deb` (Debian/Ubuntu) or `.rpm` (Fedora/Suse) from the releases.
2.  Install using your package manager (e.g., `sudo apt install ./package.deb` or `sudo dnf install ./package.rpm`) or a software center like `gnome-software`.

Commit message:

Update Installation.md with pcsc-lite installation instructions for Debian and NixOS

docs/Installation.md, after:

Welcome to the official installation guide for PicoForge. This document will help you set up the application on your operating system.

## Windows

1.  #### Download the Installer

    Go to the [Latest Releases](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/releases/latest) page and download the `picoforge_[version]_[arch]-setup.exe` file.

2.  #### Run the Installer

    Locate the downloaded file and run it to install the application.

3.  #### Verify Smart Card Service

    For the application to communicate with your device, the Windows Smart Card service must be running. You can ensure this by running the following command in PowerShell:

    ```powershell
    Get-Service SCardSvr | Start-Service
    ```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Please run the application as **Administrator**. This is often required for the application to correctly detect and interact with the hardware device.

## macOS

> [!WARNING]
> The macOS version of this application is tested rarely, while it does work fine, it might have some bugs that I have not experienced, feel free to report it on issues.
> 
> If you are a developer or user who can assist with testing and debugging on macOS, contributions are highly appreciated. Please check the Issues tab or join our Discord server.

#### Setup Instructions:

- Download the application from the [Latest Releases](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/releases/latest).
- No additional driver setup is usually required as the PC/SC framework is built into macOS.

## Linux

We offer multiple ways to run the application on Linux. Please choose the method that best suits your needs.

### Global Prerequisite: Smart Card Daemon

Regardless of the installation method you choose below, your **host operating system** must have the Smart Card Daemon (`pcscd`) installed and running. This service allows the application to talk to the USB device.

#### Enable pcscd on your host:

```bash
# Command may vary by distro, commonly:
sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd
```
To have the pcscd service, you may need to install pcsc-lite if it is not installed by default on your Linux distribution.
- On Debian : `sudo apt install pcscd`
- On NixOS, add this line in your /etc/nixos/configuration.nix : `services.pcscd.enable = true;`


### Option 1: [COPR Repository](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/) (Recommended for Fedora, openSUSE, and RHEL-based distros)

[COPR](https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/) is the recommended way of installing the application on Fedora, openSUSE, and RHEL-based distributions. This method ensures you get the latest release of the app on the same day it's published.

#### Fedora

##### Fedora Rawhide, 43, 42

```bash
sudo dnf copr enable lockedmutex/picoforge
sudo dnf install picoforge
```

#### RHEL-based Distributions

##### RHEL, CentOS, AlmaLinux, Rocky Linux (EPEL 10)

```bash
sudo dnf install dnf-plugins-core
sudo dnf copr enable lockedmutex/picoforge
sudo dnf install picoforge
```

#### openSUSE

##### Tumbleweed

```bash
sudo zypper addrepo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/repo/opensuse-tumbleweed/lockedmutex-picoforge-opensuse-tumbleweed.repo
sudo zypper refresh
sudo zypper install picoforge
```

##### Leap 15.6

```bash
sudo zypper addrepo https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/lockedmutex/picoforge/repo/opensuse-leap-15.6/lockedmutex-picoforge-opensuse-leap-15.6.repo
sudo zypper refresh
sudo zypper install picoforge
```

#### Post-Installation

After installation, you can launch picoforge from your application menu or run:

```bash
picoforge
```

#### Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues during installation:

- **Fedora/RHEL**: Ensure EPEL repository is enabled for RHEL-based systems
- **openSUSE**: Verify the repository URL matches your distribution version
- For general issues, check the [project repository](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge) or [report a bug](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/issues)

### Option 2: AppImage (Simplest)

The AppImage format contains most dependencies and runs on almost any Linux distribution.

1.  Download the `.AppImage` file from the [Latest Releases](https://github.com/librekeys/picoforge/releases/latest).
2.  Mark the file as executable:
    ```bash
    chmod +x picoforge_*.AppImage
    ```
3.  Launch the file.

> [!NOTE]
> If the AppImage does not start, check if you are missing FUSE (Filesystem in Userspace), which is required for AppImages on some newer distributions like Ubuntu 22.04+.

### Option 3: Distrobox

If you encounter dependency issues on your specific distribution, we highly recommend using **Distrobox**. This method runs the application inside a stable Fedora environment while integrating it seamlessly with your desktop.

#### Requirements:

- [Distrobox](https://distrobox.it/) installed on your system.
- A container engine like `podman` or `docker`.

#### Step-by-Step Guide:

1.  **Create the Container:**
    We will use a standard Fedora Toolbox image which is known to be compatible.
    ```bash
    distrobox create -i quay.io/fedora/fedora-toolbox:43 -n picoforge
    ```

2.  **Enter the Container:**
    ```bash
    distrobox enter picoforge
    ```

3.  **Install the Application:**
    ```bash
    sudo dnf copr enable lockedmutex/picoforge
    sudo dnf install picoforge
    ```

4.  **Export to Host System:**
    This step creates a shortcut in your system's application menu so you can launch it like any other app.
    ```bash
    distrobox-export --app picoforge
    ```

5.  **Launch:**
    You can now find and launch "picoforge" from your application launcher.

### Option 4: Native Package

If you prefer to install the package directly on your system, please ensure you have installed all necessary dependencies for your specific distribution.

<details>
<summary><strong>OpenSuse Tumbleweed Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo zypper install libwebkit2gtk-4_1-0 libsoup-3_0-0 libgtk-3-0 \
libpcsclite1 libhidapi-hidraw0 libsecret-1-0 \
gstreamer-plugins-base libavif16 libwebp7 libenchant-2-2 pcsc-tools

sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Fedora Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo dnf install webkit2gtk4.1 libsoup3 gtk3 \
pcsc-lite pcsc-tools hidapi libsecret \
gstreamer1-plugins-base libavif libwebp enchant2

sudo systemctl enable --now pcscd
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Debian / Ubuntu Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install libwebkit2gtk-4.1-0 libgtk-3-0 libsoup-3.0-0 \
libpcsclite1 pcscd pcsc-tools libhidapi-hidraw0 libsecret-1-0 \
gstreamer1.0-plugins-base libavif16 libwebp7 libenchant-2-2
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Arch Linux Dependencies</strong></summary>

```bash
sudo pacman -S webkit2gtk-4.1 gtk3 libsoup3 \
pcsclite pcsc-tools hidapi libsecret \
gst-plugins-base libavif libwebp enchant
```
</details>

#### Installation:

1.  Download the `.deb` (Debian/Ubuntu) or `.rpm` (Fedora/Suse) from the releases.
2.  Install using your package manager (e.g., `sudo apt install ./package.deb` or `sudo dnf install ./package.rpm`) or a software center like `gnome-software`.
